{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20740\viewh13420\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
community ecology has started tot think about webs of interacting species, rather than the pairwise linkages between predators and prey. people can \
\
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}
\f1 Humans are very much a part of ecosystems \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}People are predators \'96 trophic level of people is a pig\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}People are prey lions with people isotope signatures (yaekel pnas) or tiger attacks in india and people wearing backwards masks to deter them\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}But humans are also different because of their complex behaviors\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}While we do have pretty easily recognizable ecological interactions (fishing/hunting) we also do weird and complicated stuff\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}we appreciate the physical environment for it\'92s spiritual or cultural value [pictures of cultural appreciation of nature (white bear forest?)]\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}we mediate our interactions with complicated governance based on social norms [Pictures of democratic assembly - governance is complicated ]\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}because of this, people have been left out of the academic study of community ecology almost completely. Not just the complicated stuff, but also the more straight forward consumer role. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Think of major food webs that have been drawn up, Serengeti, Yellowstone, Australia Barrier reef. All have people outside of that. Even though we know people are involved. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	4.	}This is a problem. Given that humans are part of these systems,  integrating people into these food webs  and their complex behavior into our eco centric view of the world can provide major insights\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Brashares example linking bushmeat and fishing \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	5.	}On  applied side (the conservation management side), much more conceptual development has been made a lot\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}New Conservation fight, Mace et all have made this point recently: Moved to the \'91nature and people\'92 framing\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}But this hasn\'92t been done quantitatively, no operational tools to do this type of analysis.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	6.	}At the beginning of my phd I started with a \'93simple\'94 example where I showed how complex human behavior can destabilize natural resources, \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}was looking at how harvest and climate change interact in a simple mechanistic model\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}also examined effects of protected areas, as they are commonly proposed solution to both stressors\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}found that how people were assumed to reallocate effort determined whether protected areas were better or worse than doing nothing at all. interesting!\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	7.	}but this shared these same limitations of being unidirectional (people on the outside) and my gut understanding that humans prey switch and are connected to all sorts of resources (e.g. today I ate x for breakfast and for lunch Y) So today, in the spirit of attempting to develop more operational and quantitative approaches for capturing dynamics of people and natural systems they\'92re a part of I\'92m going  to focus on this bidirectional aspect of integrating humans into basic ecology and management using the west coast fisheries of the us as a model\
{\listtext	8.	}Specifically I\'92m going to ask two questions 	\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	} What is the structure of social-ecological systems wherein people are a key predator\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}how does the structure of these systems change when we try to manage these systems with complex human behavior\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	9.	}Introduction to study systems \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Details about west coast fishery \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	10.	}Introduction to network structure\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}What are different ways of measuring structure\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}What are the consequences of these variable structures from ecological theory\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	11.	}grey out question two and focus in on intro for question 1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}to understand any indirect effects and/or complex \
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}conclusion \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	12.	}Grey out question one and focus on questions 2 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\'85\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Conclusion \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	13.	}Talk about major take homes from each of your two sections that answer your two questions \
{\listtext	14.	}Zoom back out to the broaden to first big question about how humans and their complex behaviors are integrated in to our ecosystems and talk again about how you\'92re testing with quantitative rigor some of the hypotheses/ideas that have come from the hicks et al or other theory approach \
{\listtext	15.	}Management implications\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Here is where you might talk about the mismatch between management/policy and the variable structures that exist across space and time \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	16.	}Wax about what you think is next in this endeavor and where you\'92re going (?)\page }