{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Current spot:\
\

\b Project 1:
\b0  pretty good, need to do thorough check of literature to make sure there\'92s no one else who has looked at this. \
\

\b Project 2: 
\b0 Need to look at Holling\'92s work to see how he goes from mechanism to functional response. Can I go backwards? I can see that a nonlinear predation rate should change stability of fisheries system, but how do I determine if fishermen are likely to exhibit this functional response? Also should skim the 14 most interesting papers, are these the types of data that could contribute to functional response calculations?\
\

\b Project 3:
\b0  Are commercial fisheries truly determined by an MSY with constant effort slapped on top of a complicated statistical size/age structured model? Print out the Hilborn & Walters book to find out. \
\

\b Project 4:
\b0  What type of data would I need to test the theoretical predictions of harvesting strategy? Can I get them from Half Moon Bay?\
\
Also what happens if my theoretical predictions are totally wrong?\
\

\b Project unrelated: artisanal versus commercial:
\b0  Waiting on some clarification of what strategy means\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Project unrelated: backwards ESSs
\b0  Waiting on some clarification of what \'91harvesting strategy\'92 means and what a biologically optimal harvesting strategy might depend on. \
\
}