{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Previous work/Motivation
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Previous work on fisheries has primarily looked at the harvesting behavior of fishermen in two ways: either from a general perspective at a population level, or a case study at the level of the individual.\
\
Population level work has focused on information sharing in fishermen ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E4E1B532-CF8F-411F-9BD3-82456C883B8A"}}{\fldrslt Mangel & Clark}}), general observations about how CPUE should interact with fish abundance \{Hilborn 1992\}. The conclusions of these studies are broadly that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://16504605-1B4B-49D9-8A9D-56B09341D911"}}{\fldrslt something}}. Case studies have focused on location choice in fishermen ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://54B03B22-AB60-4543-8BD9-6306C6B8F1A3"}}{\fldrslt RUM models}}), descriptive accounts of the anthropology of fishing communities, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://29D42B39-4787-49CC-B638-8D22AD3CDBDD"}}{\fldrslt and others}}. There are few studies that consider the result of fishing dynamics and fishermen harvesting behavior. The few that do tend to find surprising results. \{Smith 2008a\} found that policy recommendations reversed entirely when fishermen behavior and ecological dynamics were endogenous to the model{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://747D95FC-9A54-47A9-87DE-71E265F01A60"}}{\fldrslt .}} \
\
There are a few examples of studies that integrate individual level behavior to population level dynamics. \{Wilson 2007a\} develop a biophysical agent-based-model of the Maine lobster fishery in which both the recruitment and catchability of lobster vary at seasonal and yearly time scales while fisher behavior varies at a daily scale. Fisher decision's are allowed to evolve and respond endogenously to conditions in the simulation, however this results in a decision space for fishermen that consists of approximately 14 trillion different unique {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5B51CB3F-651C-4C26-8D13-D8D2AED96CF8"}}{\fldrslt choices.}} The goal of this review is to search for more tractable, simple explanations to link the foraging behavior of fishermen and the biophysical conditions of the marine system.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
Despite the focus at two levels, these studies have not been well integrated or connections have not been explained mechanistically. Studies that aggregate individual level variation in harvesting studies either are statistical or do not consider the outcome for stock dynamics. Further these case studies have widely divergent ecologies of targeted species, types of gear and management in place. }