{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Big questions\
------------------\
- Have people already looked through CPUE and human behavior?\
- How do I go between individual-level ESS foraging strategies and population foraging responses?\
\
\
Needing clarity \
-------------------\
What actually is a 'harvesting strategy'?\
	It could be the way you share information, or the way you allocate effort over space and time. Or a combination of both. At its root it's how you make decisions. In game theory a strategy "provides a rule for the individual at each instance of the game". Thus I need to define the game first and then determine what the type of (and possible) choices that are available. \
\
\
Need help breaking down into smaller questions\
---------------------------------------------------\
- Want to find the optimal harvesting strategy for individuals and for the management, compare them, and ask, can you shift the system in a way that makes the strategy that's optimal for management be the same as the one that's optimal for the individual? And if you can't, why not?\
\
\
Concepts I need help clarifying\
------------------------------------\
- Toss around the idea of 'harvesting strategies' a lot. What does that actually mean? Hoping that clarifying this will help me think about more testable hypotheses for empirical data. \
\
\
Ideas that need sharpening\
---------------------------------\
- I like the idea of bottom up versus top down management and looking at how that should change encounter rate (bottom up, not going to share information with defectors) or the cost function (top down, fines for breaking the law). \
- Also like the idea of looking at adaptive dynamics. But that seems like it requires a population of homogeneous individuals.. Not sure that works so well for fishermen. Seems like fishermen have a number of constraints that change over longer timescales that could confound (family, social ties) that are not determined (or at all related) to fisheries dynamics. Not sure how this fits in. }