{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs40 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Why care about fishermen social behavior?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It\'92s been underdeveloped\

\f1 In most models, fishing effort is assumed to be exogenous and determined by the management \\citep\{@vanPuttenetal:2012\}\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://611EE733-AD81-421B-B386-03C1665A244B"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Policy changes may only be achieved with effective modeling of marine ecosystems which requires accurate modeling of resource users and the factors driving their behavior \\citep\{@vanPuttenetal:2012\}. \
}}\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7813B17E-91FB-4A67-AE0D-60FC0C58817D"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Interpretation of catch-based data }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6B49640-8F4D-4C4B-BD5D-6F4B08757D1D"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
could}} be influenced by the distribution of fishing effort and capacity. \
\
Possible benefits from understanding fisher behavior: Fulton et al. 2010, Prellezo et al 2009\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Avoid Management Failures\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6DE8CA98-CA97-4FD7-8B82-C8B552702424"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Management failures are caused by ignoring fishermen\'92s behavior \\citep\{@SalasGaertner:2004\}. }}
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} take two observations: (1) that stock collapses are not unusual and (2) that managers tend to incorporate fishing as a simple, probably fixed, process, and suggests that this simplistic view of harvesting behavior could be what {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A75024F9-F28C-412E-9F18-76B2A2B6376D"}}{\fldrslt causes mismanagement and stock collapse. }}\
\
\\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} also reference a number of{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://29B3AAA8-3505-47AC-AA9C-10F4225B5315"}}{\fldrslt  other papers}} that say that understanding fishermen\'92s behavior is as important as a knowledge of the species targeted. \
\
\\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} also reinforce my observation: that while a number of authors have emphasized the need to understand fisher behavior and use this {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B2447F0C-E41B-4FE2-974E-B5D010C1F001"}}{\fldrslt for management}}, very actually report studies {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7E4CA2D2-80B5-40FF-B87F-7A61530A5141"}}{\fldrslt in this area}}. Specifically \\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} say that we need to be able to determine and anticipate the dynamics and distribution of fishing effort which {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://58936757-17D3-4063-94A8-DB79B71DCA6F"}}{\fldrslt can be used in modern stock assessments}}. \
\
\\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} specifically highlight examples where understanding fisher behavior might be helpful to management, e.g. Regulating the number of boats if catches{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E4B1EC9E-83C4-46BB-9757-104696C7AB65"}}{\fldrslt  are influenced by fisher experience}} or that it\'92s not helpful to search for the importance of fisher experience in a fleet {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F04D182B-85E3-4C44-A3F7-D80B63622B48"}}{\fldrslt with highly developed technology. }}And finally \\cite\{@SalasGaertner:2004\} argue that without an understanding of fisher behavior {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E04E0D96-34B6-4535-A5F9-A8721A1AD0D9"}}{\fldrslt non-compliance with management}} will be a serious problem. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab920\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Assumption in fisheries that management protect the biological health of the resource. The type of management is only important in that it determines how the system generates economic rent. \
\
As long as there is compliance with management, the resource should be fine.\
\
Melnychuk et al. meta-analysis found that the status of west coast groundfish stocks on west coast, found that type of management did not affect whether the fishery was biologically healthy. Concluded that as long as scientifically established quotas are set and enforced, particular management type is not important from biological perspective. \
\
looking at the gag fishery in the gulf of mexico, smith et al. 2008 found that treating harvester behavior exogenously versus endogenously gave different results for proposed management. \
\
The gag fishery has a number of overlapping regulations, but is mainly regulated on effort (how many days you can fish). Managers closed the fishery for one month in the spring to protect the gag when they spawn, and are most vulnerable to fishing. \
\
Treating harvesting behavior exogenously (i.e. harvesting behavior remains constant) this closure reduces fishing and increases biomass. Allowing harvesting behavior to be endogenous and responds to price, alternative fishing opportunities, and wheather, the fishermen fish more intensively in remaining open season during the year, and even more intensively in the few days during the spawning season that are open. \
\
Thus the seasonal closure stimulates fishing effort before and after its effective dates enough to completely negate itself in the short run. Since the spawning seasons goes Jan-April, and the closure only cuts on a month during the peak spawning season. \
\
Further the intensification during the spawning season decreases the number of older fish. }