{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs40 \cf2 Introduction
\f1\b\fs26 \

\f0\b0\fs24 Motivation
\f1 : interested in feedbacks between resource users and resource, how one can shape the other and vice-versa. As a case study I want to look at harvesting practices (defined here as where and when fishermen harvest).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Technological development, expansion of there world\'92s fishing fleets and subsequent over-fishing of many wild stocks have made the question of fishing effort the most pressing and difficult issue for fishery managers to deal with, and the social aspects of fishing effort have been relatively neglected in this area (@Gezelius:2007). The ability of a fisherman to turn his material assets into fish catch depends on his knowledge of how, when and where to use them most efficiently (@Gezelius:2007).\
{\listtext	\'95	}In efforts to include more EBM in management, we need to understand at a finer scale how fishermen harvest resources. This subtly will allow management to be increasingly fine-tuned instead of broad-brush inflexible buearucratic dictates. We\'92re interested in characterizing how harvesting practices change (not just aggregate indicators) with different ecologies, management types, and technologies. We hypothesize that information transfer mediates these different drivers.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Our goal is to understand and predict the feedbacks between ecological dynamics, fisher social behavior and management regulations in marine ecosystems. Fishing is an uncertain and competitive activity and a fishers behavior is highly sensitive to social, ecological and technological factors (@Hilborn:1985, @AllenMcGlade:1986, @Branchetal:2006). Fisher social-networks, target species dynamics, and gear (e.g. long-line versus trawl) all play a role in when, where and how much they fish (Fig. 1; @Wilen:1979, @Hilborn:1985, @Palmer:1991, @HilbornWalters:1992, @Charles:1995, @Wilenetal:2002, @SalarGaertner:2004, @Andersenetal:2010). Further, the way we manage fisheries also affects fisher behavior (@Hilborn:1985, @SalarGaertner:2004, @Branchetal:2006) and this we have exploited with incentive based institutions designed to control and predict the aggregate behavior of fishing fleets (@Costelloetal:2008, @Costelloetal:2010). However, the challenge for management remains to know which incentives to use given the circumstances. Improving our ability to do so will come from a more complete understanding of how fisher social behavior interacts with ecological, technological and management factors (Fig. 1).\
{\listtext	\'95	}From @Branchetal:2006 : We manage people not fish, the study of people should be just as important as the study of fish. Also fleet dynamics, and individual behavior can help add nuance to CPUE, the most common metric of fish abundance. And a metric highly influenced by information transfer and fleet dynamics (@Branchetal:2006). CPUE also is much more what fishermen see than managers with research trawls. In order to understand discrepancies from the two, understanding harvest patterns provides a link between the two.\
{\listtext	\'95	}One thought I\'92ve had quite a bit is that resource economics does a good job identifying when a tragedy of the commons is likely to occur, Ostrom\'92s work does a good job of identifying common characteristics of societies that have solved common\'92s governance. But there\'92s no theory to predict how different societies will transition from bad to good governance of the commons. (I\'92ve primarily getting this idea from reading the intro environmental studies text book.) For example, you can identify when a common pool resource is poorly governed, and maybe even which type of commons resources are most likely to be poorly governed. And Ostrom provides some guide to what works to allow sustainable use of common pool resources. But how to craft policy, which types of rules to use in which cases, that\'92s not explained by Ostrom\'92s work. And that transition to get from A 
\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  B is what everyone who wants to solve an environmental problem is after and/or confused about. Fisheries scientists/managers surprised by what happens when new rules go in, and the constant revision and brainstorming about new ways to solve the same types of conservation problems. So I guess what I\'92m thinking about is maybe there\'92s a more heuristic framework that could be devel- oped about how different types of communities are likely to respond to different rule implementations? But possible obstacles\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}It\'92s not that people can\'92t predict what will happen, it\'92s that they don\'92t. If resource economics were properly applied (just for example) many of the \'91surprises\'92 could have been predicted\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}The reason the same problems keep cropping up is because the common pool resource is embedded in a (or many more) much larger problem(s). Something like dictatorship, poverty, inequality/injustice that solving the common pool resource alone won\'92t solve. But solving those big problems would help solve the common pool resource (or make it easier to start solving the common pool resource problem).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200
\cf2 Should see my ideas.tex file in Possibly_RelevantNotes folder. Lots of ideas, readings on the general motivation for this project. Think this is probably the most fleshed out part of the my proposal so far, can sit on it awhile. Other readings to consider: sustainability science section of Sente, all those general paeprs that call for \'92more integration between social and biophysical sciences!"\
}