{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 3/29/2012\
\
The problem is what I\'92m going to do and how I\'92m going to do it. The question that I\'92m arguing for is: under what conditions is human behavior likely to be important. \
\
And I don\'92t have a beginning hypothesis to start with, and without that I can\'92t come up with a test for how to disprove it. \
\
A starting one could be: \
\
When there is heterogeneity in the system, harvesting behavior is important to predict system dynamics. \
\
What I\'92m trying to get at is that if the system is uniform, there\'92s no spatial distribution of species that puts more of one type in one place than another, or an age structure where some fish are more important than other fish. Then you won\'92t see any ecological importance of harvesting behavior. \
\

\b Sidenote: 
\b0 Ray hilborn\'92s paper about fisheries production, does this discuss what different ways fish respond to harvesting? Can look for whether systems are heterogeneous or not?\
\
But also when harvesters have flexibility about how to allocate effort, that\'92s important. But again, it\'92s only important if there are some sub-structures to the population. \
\

\b Lade et al
\b0 . What characteristics of the study caused regime shifts?\
\

\b Smith et al. 2008 
\b0 Not what you\'92d expect because incentives changed?\
\
Lot\'92s of talk about aligning fishermen and society\'92s incentives. How do you characterize someone\'92s incentive? Would imagine that it\'92s a functional relationship, as the variable you\'92re watching changes, your incentive to do 
\i x 
\i0 changes. And it could be a function of multiple variables. \
\
Therefore for an incentives to \'91align\'92 you need to have them both change in the same way. For example, incentive to go fishing increases as there are more fish. This is because the profits outweigh the costs. \
\
How do incentive structures affect SES dynamics? Are there types of incentive structures that lead to more or less stable SES dynamics?}