{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs40 \cf0 Random Thoughts\

\f1\fs24 \cf2 What about the trend for consolidation and increased removal from natural resource work.\
Idea of ITQs being owned by rich people far away, gentrification of Maine harbors (@Hughes 2012), and constantly thinking of salmon fishers in Washington and Oregon. As these links to resource use get longer, does the fragility increase, is the system less adaptive?\
What I told Scott Barrett was that I\'92m interested in what type of incentives do particular ecologies create. Basically thinking of it that you have an incentive structure that a management regime creates, and an incentive structure the ecology creates. What happens when you overlay the two. But then you have all these perturbations, in the form of new technology, a social environment and a changing physical environment that change the landscape. And your incentive is a function of all these things.\
Can you look at management surprises that have happened in the past and explain things like hi-grading, poaching in MPAs, concentration of ITQs. If you can explain them, can you do the same analysis on current management and predict the results?\
The pacific groundfish fishery depends in part on the California current and it\'92s productivity. So could examine how robust pro-social behavior is to endogenous and exogenous variation (due to physical and fishing, respectively). And how these two sources of variation affect management layered on top, jointly.\
Fishermen behavior is important to think about, and people haven\'92t been! (Consider Hilborn 1985, 2007)\
Theoretically, with the right incentive structure marine SESs should be able to be managed for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3C5FCF1B-1C34-41E5-830B-FD6FA581A5A7"}}{\fldrslt ecological and economic sustainability.}} But we can\'92t because we don\'92t know about fishermen\'92s behavior. \
Could I look at how ostracism should arise? And what form it should take? \
One approach could be finding a harvesting strategy and then attempting to see if it\'92s optimal given the parameters of the system. \
Look up Pacific hake and sablefish? How are those fisheries parameterized? \
Pacific Hake: Stewart and Forrest 2011, Love 1996 --> hypothesize collective harvesting; has three fishing sectors: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	1.	}a shoreside sector (deliver catch to shore for processing), ITQ\
{\listtext	2.	}Mothership sector, catcher vessels deliver to motherships at sea, cooperatives\
{\listtext	3.	}catcher/processor sector where vessesl at sea both catch hake and process them, single, voluntary coop\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf2 Sablefish: Love 1996, Schirripa 2007 --> hypothesize individual harvesting, limited tradable quota system (limited entry fishery, with a finite number of permits and catch limits)\
Examples of ABMs that have been used to understand the behavior and dynamics of fishers: Dreyfus-Leon and Kleiber 2001, Little et al. 2004, Milischer and Gascuel 2006\
Questions for the mathematical/theoretical component\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	1)	}When is it more advantageous to work in groups\
{\listtext	2)	}Does social history matter? Path dependence? What type of disturbances are cooperation sensitive to? Can management cause any of these disturbances?\
{\listtext	3)	}How important is technology? Allowing improved fish finding, harvesting, or private signaling \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf2 Models proposed to start with: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}cultural evolution models: Richardson et al. 2003, Boyd and Richerson 2002, Bowles et al. 2003)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf2 Intend to incorporate the resource abundance, technological parameters (detection and efficiency) and the regulatory environment (length of season). Should contribute to literature on the emergence of institutions as a result of interactions between individuals: Dekel et al. 2007, Lehman et al. 2008, Boyd et al. 2011 \

\f0 Management and behavior: \

\f1 Weitzman 2002 showed that a landing fee (or tax) is always more efficient than an ITQ when the manager has to determine the TAC under uncertainty. The idea is that the landing fee allows fishers to determine optimal effort levels after observing the actual state of the stock, which he assumed they do with certainty. But which management is more efficient when fishermen have incomplete and private information?\
So I have this idea that I could figure out the optimal way fishermen should harvest as you vary harvesting efficiency and conditional detection probability (given that fish school is there, what\'92s your probability of seeing it). Ecological parameters that would vary are what\'92s the probability of encountering fish, how many of them are there in an encounter (solitary? schooling?)\
information would moderate encounter rate\
technology would moderate detection probability and harvesting efficiency, and travel time.\
idea is that as write equations that tell you your expected catch depends on\
expected catch = (amount of patches/km2)(amount of fish in a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://80F0BF01-CAAB-4025-8899-8B9BEDA76A29"}}{\fldrslt patch}} - # fish/patch)(encounter rate - km-2)(detection probability)(harvesting efficiency) \
expected profit = (expected catch)(price) \'96\'a0(travel time)(costs)\
basically is rewriting qEN from gordon-scheffer model. I\'92m sure Walters & Hilborn 1992 discuss this. Should see what they say about it. Possible that people have already done this for different species. Although interesting to break it down into these terms. Because these are terms that can be more affected by technology and information that q and E can. But should see how q and E are calculated in Walters & Hilborn 1992\
I think the encounter rate is going to be a difficult thing to write down. Seems like it should depend on how autocorrelated the patches of fish are. And how constant they are from one year to the next. \
Okay, so you have some equation for expected catch and expected profit. Want to maximize expected profit. Or possibly have some minimum amount of money so that you don\'92t take a loss. \
I think you have to think of this over an entire season. Fishermen have some time \uc0\u964  during which they have to make at least \u960  profit.\
Big question is, how should you model the encounter rate for fish patches? \
Social foraging theory -- Food-sharing with communal costs (pg. 56) : think this would be applicable for understanding when, in a coop, is it good to share info with other fishermen in same coop about your {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DC42D62C-106F-468E-A48D-4BE9480C80E5"}}{\fldrslt harvest}}. \
Another thing is what outputs should come out of the ABM. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}CPUE\
{\listtext	\'95	}Total catch\
{\listtext	\'95	}Variance\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf2 Okay, so motivation I think needs to be, how to evaluate management while considering fishermen behavior. But should really look through Van Putten et al. 2012, Fulton et al. 2011, Branch et al. 2006, Schulter et al. 2012, Lade et al. 2013, Horan et al. 2011 for reasons why the link between resources and resource users are important. Also the P. Abrams patch-harvesting model. \
After reading: goal to have a written summary of why one should care about links between resource users and resources. And ideally why marine SESs are the right place to look at it. \
If disparaged (likely) move on to reading about the SES framework. That might give me some ideas. But at least try to put the fishermen behavior stuff (plan part of my hypotheses) into that framework. Are there broader questions about SES that are interesting that are not related to fisheries harvests\
Those are the goals for Monday. \
Also, does the ABM run?\
How would I change things so that there is and is not a social network. What variables need to be saved to evaluate one run from the other? (Dreyfus-Leon 2006 might be a place to start).\
Another thing to read could be EBM for oceans. \
An idea: When does local over-harvesting matter? To which type of fish? To which types of species that depend on the harvested fish? Alternatively, which types of harvesting are stabilizing, which types are destabilizing. What types of strategies end up having destabilizing effects on system, which are stabilizing?\
Thinking that local over-harvesting is probably destabilizing. But that IFD harvesting (where profit is equal across all areas) is more stabilizing. \
So thinking are there information/gear/management that promotes local over-harvesting. \
Also thinking about Steve\'92s point that what would be interesting is how recreational and commercial fisheries compete. But also have different sectors of commercial fisheries. Which strategy should each take, and which one is better? How does that affect the underlying resource, themselves and their competitor?\
Thinking of pacific hake with 3 different sectors. i bet each sector does not share information across sectors, and has different success. also has different impacts.\
and depending on species dispersal abilities and reproductive rate, the impacts of local over-harvesting would be different. }