{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What about the trend for consolidation and increased removal from natural resource work. Idea of ITQs being owned by rich people far away, gentrification of Maine harbors [#Huges:2012], and constantly thinking of salmon fishers in Washington and Oregon. As these links to resource use get longer, does the fragility increase, is the system less adaptive? \
What I told Scott Barrett was that I'm interested in what type of incentives do particular ecologies create. Basically thinking of it that you have an incentive structure that a management regime creates, and a incentive structure the ecology creates. What happens when you overlay the two. But then you have all these perturbations, in the form of new technology, a social environment and a changing physical environment that change the landscape. And your incentive is a function of all these things. \
Can you look at management surprises that have happened in the past and explain the?Things like higrading, poaching in MPAs, concentration of ITQs. If you can explain them, can you do the same analysis on current management and predict the results?\
Now what I'm thinking is incorporating a simple stock recruitment function into the Tavoni et al. Paper [#Tavonietal:2012]. Fluctuating resources makes cooperators more successful, but when defectors get a double impact, both in getting more profit from more fish, but also deals a blow to everyone (by reducing the stock that everyone depends on), what happens? The idea is to explore how biology, and harvesting levels interact to shape fishermen's' incentives. Maybe using the model to look at pacific groundfish fishery. I think that's where VMS data and other data are coming from for James' grant. The goal would be, what are the key parameters that determine sustainable resource management. Instead of just focusing on enforcement to prevent defectors (people harvesting in MPAs, for example), can you tweak the system in other ways. Maybe by making everyone's yields more transparent so that it's easier to see who's cheating at the dock? Or maybe examining in what ways social capital is important for fishermen and trying to improve that. Also looking at how the structure of the stock matters in shaping these interactions. \
The pacific groundfish fishery depends in part on the California current and its productivity. So could examine how robust pro-social behavior is to endogenous and exogenous variation (due to physical and fishing, respectively). And how these two sources of variation affect management layered on top, jointly. }