{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f4\fnil\fcharset204 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs56 \cf0 Questions and comments from Ray Hilborn's latest email\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs36 \cf0 Ray wrote the following:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{\\Scrv_ps=
\f3 We are nibbling around this area in a lot of different activities.  We have a NSF CNH grant to look at aspects of the Bristol Bay salmon fishery,  with one aspect modeling the dynamics of permit ownership (they tend to drift out of local communities to larger centers) and participation in the fisheries.\
\
As a follow up to Worm 2009 we are looking at the management factors related to good biological, social and economic outcomes.  I am doing this with a range of co-authors including Mike Melnychuk,  Chris Costello and Corbett Grainger (the last two economists).  What we know from Worm et al 2009 and subsequent deeper analysis is the biggest differences are by region -- for instance EU countries do poorly on biological status, US, New Zealand, and Iceland do well.  Much of this has to do with the governance system --  EU has a highly political process for setting quotas.\}\
\
so hypotheses we are testing and suspect are important are\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\'95	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the legal/governance system (or lack of it)\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\'95	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the economics of the fishery -- low value stocks are often at high abundance\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	\'95	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the life history especially through vulnerability to by-catch\
\
When we shift to economic and social success some of the same factors seem to apply, especially governance and we are pretty sure that  the nature of harvester rights has a lot to do with economic profitability and impact on communities.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \\end_Scrv_ps\}
\f3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 My thoughts and questions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Seems like the follow-up study is correlation -- trying to identify which characteristics are associated with biological and social success. Do you have any idea if it would be possible (or again, if you're thinking about it) to look at policy changes and use them as natural experiments to try to think about which characteristics might be more or less important? Is that even possible?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Still on the follow-up study, what exactly is governance system? All those countries are developed, is it governance related specifically to how fish are managed? Is this related to the Ostrom framework? Using that? Option on that framework?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Also seems like the characteristics of the resource community are left out (again thinking of the Ostrom framework), Maybe with harvesters rights you're talking about it? But the ability to get into and out of the fishery might matter, how close the community is, the kind of trust/familiarity of everyone? Can people ostracize others?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For the proposed hypotheses: the economics is that high values are fished much closer to $B_\{MSY\}$?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The last hypothesis about vulnerability of life history, an interesting take on Malin's paper. So it's not the fish's vulnerability to being caught, but rather the likelihood of them getting caught and not accounted for? And thus overfished? I like it. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I can imagine pretty straightforward metrics for economic success (improve profits, etc.) but how are you guys measuring social success? I imagine community stability  is important (keeping people around, maintaining jobs without a huge amount of fluctuation), but it's not immediately obvious to me how you'd quantify that in a single number. Or even which social processes are most important to track (or what all those social processes could be). \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f3 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
But possibly could be \'93ensuring a sustainable contribution of fisheries to the economy\'94 as stated in  [#GarciaCharles:2008;]. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Also the modeling of permit-holders, how are you doing that? ABM, and they're allowed to sell off their permits? What are the goals of this model? Management suggestions, could you predict how new policy might change the dynamics?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Also trying to get a feel for what's been done, what's possible to try to frame my own work. So any broad general suggestions are super helpful. Specifically, how to take a model and test its assumptions, make it useful to policy and management. Do you know any examples??\
}