{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
One thought I've had quite a bit is that resource economics does a good job identifying when a tragedy of the commons is likely to occur, Ostrom's work does a good job of identifying common characteristics of societies that have solved common's governance. But there's no theory to predict how different societies will transition from bad to good governance of the commons. (I've primarily getting this idea from reading the intro environmental studies text book.)\
\
For example, you can identify when a common pool resource is poorly governed, and maybe even which type of commons resources are most likely to be poorly governed. And Ostrom provides some guide to what works to allow sustainable use of common pool resources. But how to craft policy, which types of rules to use in which cases, that's not explained by Ostrom's work. And that transition to get from A to B is what everyone who wants to solve an environmental problem is after and/or confused about. Fisheries scientists/managers surprised by what happens when new rules go in, and the constant revision and brainstorming about new ways to solve the same types of conservation problems. \
\
So I guess what I'm thinking about is maybe there's a more heuristic framework that could be developed about how different types of communities are likely to respond to different rule implementations? But possible obstacles\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It's not that people can't predict what will happen, it's that they don't. If resource economics were properly applied (just for example) many of the `surprises' could have been predicted\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The reason the same problems keep cropping up is because the common pool resource is embedded in a (or many more) much larger problem(s). Something like dictatorship, poverty, inequality/injustice that solving the common pool resource alone won't solve. But solving those big problems would help solve the common pool resource (or make it easier to start solving the common pool resource problem). \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Not sure how applicable these are, or really where to go from here. Just some thoughts to have on paper. \
}