{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Large interest\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is to understand how human resource use affects ecosystems, which can, in turn, affect human communities that depend on those resources. Motivations for this are that I want to help prevent management surprises (change in the way resources are managed has indirect and unpredicted result), and to be clear about trade-offs. \
\
Much of conservation seems to be about aligning incentives, if we can get resource-users and society's values in line, then we can have win-wins. And this is sometimes true. The MSC operates on the idea that fishermen should sustainably manage their catches, and people will pay more for that brand. Increase transparency for the consumers, and fishermen are rewarded with higher profits. But I think sometimes it's just not possible to align both fishermen and society's incentives. But often it seems like conservation attempts are considered failures because they failed to align incentives. But what if you can't? I want to be clear about tradeoffs, when such tradeoffs need to be made. Then you can have a discussion about values, what are the costs and benefits to such actions, to whom? That's not a question for science. \
\
This might be a good thing to talk to Wilcove about, what is the process for identifying conservation opportunities. Is the process I'm describing done anywhere?\
\
The question for science is, what are the possible range of parameters that can be altered by policies. There's a discrete set of parameters that managers can change for fishermen (where/when they harvest, how much). But they can't micro-manage them (I think for both ethical and financial reasons -- it'd be too expensive). Further I dislike the focus on panaceas. First it's payment for ecosystem services, then it's community based management, etc. I want a more rigorous way of evaluating the system characteristics, figuring out what parameters could be changed by policy and looking at available options. Then figuring out what the likely effect of those changes will be and having a cost/benefit/values conversation  \
\
Erm, what's the second goal?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Medium idea\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is to use fishing as a case study of this. The goals are two-fold. First it would be nice to have a model for flexible and responsive fishermen behavior to put in large ecosystem based models. I like the ecosystem based models a lot, and what I want to know is how fishermen change the marine community, the species interactions and indirect changes that occur. But much of the EBMs already exist. The idea is that I could contribute an accurate model of human behavior to be layered on top. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Fine scale project\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is to look at harvesting strategies of fishermen and see if they're a result of the system characteristics I think are most important (ecology, gear, management, information; reputation, profit). The questions are\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1)	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are there evolutionarily stable strategies in fishermen, and do those depend on the ecology, technology, gear and information available to actors.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What does my theory predict?\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Should look at big Colin's paper about signaling. How does he figure out the optimal strategy for signally and go from ABM to analytical. Seems like what I want to do here. What are the optimal strategies and how to go from ABM to analytical\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
First step is thinking about system. Rough ideas: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1)	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The stochasticity of fish movement will increase value of social information \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2)	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Technology that improves local gradient sensing will decrease the value of social information\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3)	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Management that has an open season, just a TAC will increase competition between fishers and reduce information sharing (this is obvious/already known probably). \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4)	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Some readings that might help:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kraak:2010;]: Looks at the role of exploiting fishermen behavior (exploit is the wrong word) to get better management, rather than being exclusively top down. Might give some ideas about under what circumstances you'd expect fishermen to cooperate. Could I put it in my framework? \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nelsonetal:2005;]: Looks at what human drivers change ecosystem services. From brief glance appears to be mostly terrestrial, but maybe an example of what types of drivers could be expected do change ecosystem services. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
VanDenBerghetal:2000;]: Paper about the assumptions that economic models require, specifically about whether or not humans optimize. Might be good for thinking about how to model human behavior. Also think this is the paper that `satisfizing' comes from. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kramer:2008;]: Possible model paper. Uses replicator dynamics to look at the evolution of harvesting strategy as a function of profit.  from two trophic levels in a coral reef food web. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Horanetal:2011;]: Analytical SES modeling paper from PNAS. Really liked it, should review. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ornes:2013;]: News feature from PNAS, about L\'e9vy walks in marine predator foraging behavior. L\'e9vy walks are characterized by random probabilities in both direction and step length (I think), and look like a series of small brownian motion steps with occasional huge steps between bouts of small scale movement. The news article in PNAS is a review of the argument about whether marine predators exhibit L\'e9vy walks in their searching patterns. But also interesting to see if humans exhibit this type of search behavior when looking for fish. Might be a useful first step to look up some of the work this news article is summarizing. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}[#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Plaganyietal:2013;]: Big simulation using a MSE framework. But includes social information by looking at how participation within subsectors of a rock lobster fishery will change depending on management. Likely extremely useful in thinking about an SES simulation model. Has examples of social outputs, and have a spatial allocation model. I don't think they did ABM, but they might have. Need to go back into SI methods to see. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 Do these models predict something different than basic bioeconomic modeling (predicting profits, catch variance, ecological impact). Necessitates a review of what's out there, probably trying to do some bioeconomic modeling of what I've looked at with ABM/analytic work and probably focusing on some case studies.\
The question is: do bioeconomic models predict evolutionarily stable harvest strategies, start with Colin Clark's book? Also read Mia's latest paper. Additionally this: Towards the optimal management of the northeast ar.pdf looks like a general example of a comprehensive management plan. What problems does this try to solve, what's it missing/can't solve.\
When are these models useful?\
What are stable strategies good for? So I've identified a stable strategy, it's only interesting to me if it has an effect on the ecosystem. That harvesting in a particular way has a particular type of impact to the marine foodweb. Stuck here, feel like there should be more interesting questions to ask IF the predictions from my modeling are sufficiently different from bioeconomic models, despite there not being ecological effects. Maybe need to read more bioeconomic models to see what type of questions they answer. Also re-read Maja's paper.\
What questions can these models answer that other, more basic ones can't.\
I think this question should be answered first, and a place to start is the ecosystem service modeling papers I've printed out, and the human behavior fishery review papers: [#Fultonetal:2011;], [#vanPuttenetal:2012;]), including the economic framework pape.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What happens if these theories do not generate sufficiently different predictions than bioeconomic theory? Well then I can say that in SESs, really we don't need complex models about how diverse sets of actors behave.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If there are evolutionarily stable strategies predicted in theory, are those observed in data?  Probably best to start with high resolution data, Sweden/Norway. Then go to West coast that has lower resolution (possibly biasing with catch logs, less observer coverage and VMS data)\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Possible addition: comparison between industrial and artisnal fishing fleets. Same species, different harvesting pattern?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Thought experiment\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Say I have the ABM up and running. The outputs it gives me include: the amount of fish each fishermen gets, how many fish are left in the water, a measure of effort (catch per unit time? per unit movement?), and parameter values characterizing resource and fishermen. What are the questions I want to ask?\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If we are more explicit about human behavior, can we more precisely define incentives for fishermen and better examine under what conditions society's and fishermen's values can be aligned?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Using fine scale economic indices (value added, total employment, variance in these metrics) do these differ from bioeconomic predictions of the same system? \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Current work on how policy incentives influence fishermen behavior and resultant fishery outcomes, how does adding fine scale variation in fishermen behavior change these conclusions. (Sources of existing work in [#Fultonetal:2011;]: Folke et al. 2002; Hilborn et al. 2005; Grafton et al. 2006, 2008; but possibly some problems with the aforementioned refs -- specifically highlighting false assumptions about human behavior: [#DurrenbergerPalsson:1987;]; [#McCayJentoft:1998;]). \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Can a general model framework be developed to include social information for evaluating management policies?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Can we characterize the main axes on which marine capture SESs vary from one another (my guess: ecology, technology, information, management), parameterize for each major type, and identify management that would(n't) be appropriate for the system. This involves identifying parameters that management is able to manipulate, and general mechanistic relationships between harvesting strategy and system characteristics. Goal: find mechanistic relationships between behavior and management policy. Possible refs from [#Fultonetal:2011;]: [#Fultonetal:2007;BradyWaldo:2009;]\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Can we explain management surprises by better understanding micro-scale human responses?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are there optimal harvesting strategies for given ecological, technological, information sharing parameters? \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Example of hypotheses/tests generation:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Here is a general model of a fishery SES. It is legitimately general because it represents fish like this, people like this, assumptions that have been shown to be fine. \
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Default is searching on own. What is most efficient asocial search pattern?\
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Next simplest assumption is that you can watch others. Under what conditions (possibly constrained by reality in commercial fisheries) does this strategy become optimal?\
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Next is social network. Under what conditions can you have directed signaling as an ESS?\
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What happens if everyone is in a social network and there and you can't punish\
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What happens if you can punish\
\ls4\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What happens with different initial shapes of social network\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What happens when you can choose from any 3 options of info, what are required for these 3 possibilities (asocial, observation, social) to become ESS?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	10.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are these optimal harvesting strategies what fishermen really use?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	11.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Is there a difference in relationship between optimal harvesting strategy and system characteristics when input versus output control is used to manage a fishery?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	12.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If I want to characterize the system from a much higher level, to look at longterm dynamics and drivers. These refs might be more useful model papers: (refs from Fulton et al. 2012) Folke et al. 2002; Walker et al. 2002, Bennett et al. 2003, Ostrom 2009, Gibbs 2009.}