{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Introduction
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The goal of this dissertation is to develop and test a framework that seeks to explain how fishermen harvest fish.  \
\
There is a broad call to include human behavior in fisheries management and modeling, though {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3FABF481-5640-4A7A-B66E-23CAD183F197"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
not clear exactly how this will help fisheries management}}\
\
Many case studies, but no general understanding of in what types of systems human behavior will be important in driving the entire system\'92s dynamics (and therefore important for management to consider)\
\
Current state of fisheries management: system is treated as a density-dependent predator prey system with a mean-field assumption 
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Marine fisheries are inherently a type of predator-prey system. Currently fisheries have been managed with mean-field approximations and density dependent relationship determined by stock models and harvesting rates assigned by managers. \

\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Much ecological work has gone towards examining in which predator/prey systems the mean-field assumption leads to mistaken predictions. \
\
Fisheries systems are one more example of a predator-prey system, but no one has considered the mean-field assumption in a general, comprehensive fashion. \
\
In predator-prey systems, mean field assumptions have been shown to be particularly erroneous when 
\b BLANK
\b0  and 
\b BLANK
\b0  are true about the system (just for example). In fisheries it is not hard to find examples of just such characteristics. \
\
Mean-field approximations of ecological processes are most likely to hold when the system is well mixed, organisms are highly mobile and organisms interact with each other over large distances \{Law 2000\}. Considering the oceans, a well mixed system with highly mobile organisms describes many fishery systems {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://684CA1F1-D56B-497A-A2BF-34D5B0E3CDA8"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(herring comes to mind)}}. However this assumption of a well mixed system and mobile species are not universal characteristics of all fishery systems. Indeed many fish species self assort by size, with reproductive dynamics that are also determined by the size of the individual. Such systems \
\
Because an abundance of work has found that 
\b these system characteristics
\b0  are poorly approximated by mean-field assumptions, I expect that fishery management based on mean-field approximations in fishery systems that exhibit the same characteristics will also be poorly managed. In these systems fishermen fine scale spatial and temporal behavior will matter a great deal. \
\
Further, fishermen, unlike animals, are able to share information, manage themselves, and augment their predation efficiency (i.e. gear) in ways not common to other predators. Thus it makes sense to ask: how will these changing system characteristics interact with the ecology of the system to affect harvesting strategy, and therefore making fishing strategies more or less important to understand fishery dynamics as a whole.  \
\
The goal of my thesis, therefore, is to do some number of things:\
1. To \
\
My thesis will therefore be focused on answering the two related questions: how do system characteristics determine fishermen harvesting behavior?; and: under what conditions should fishermen behavior be expected to deviate from mean-field approximations and therefore be important for fishery dynamics?\
\
These broad questions are further broken into a series of questions \
\
\pard\tx20\tx300\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li280\fi-281\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1)	}What different forms do fishermen\'92s harvesting strategy take?\
{\listtext	2)	}How does the market structure (commercial versus artisanal) affect harvesting strategy?\
{\listtext	3)	}Can optimal harvesting strategies be designed given system characteristics? Are first best solutions possible?\
{\listtext	4)	}How does changing the harvesting strategy from exogenous to endogenous affect simple analytical models?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
These questions will be addressed using four interrelated approaches\
\pard\tx20\tx282\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li262\fi-263\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1)	}Analytical Modeling\
{\listtext	2)	}Agent-based simulations\
{\listtext	3)	}Empirical verification with catch logs\
{\listtext	4)	}Developing a general framework for harvesting strategies in fishermen}