{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Functional Responses and Predator-Prey Systems in Space\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \{Gurarie 2013\}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Propose a general framework to look at probablistic encounters between arbitrarily moving searchers and immobile targets in continuous space and time. 
\b \
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Distinguish between first encounter rates and mean encounter rates\
{\listtext	\'95	}Background of null models for encounter rates\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Most null models are derived from the ideal gas law which assumes perfectly elastic, linearly moving spheres of a fixed radius. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 In general these models lead ot the conclusion that encounter rates are proportional to a power of the encounter radius, to the density of particles, and to some combination (for example, root-mean-square) of the movement velocities. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 These models typically account for heterogenous populations, since the velocities are drawn from a distribution (for example, the Maxwell-Boltzman distribution), but the movement of individual particles between collisions is assumed to be linear with constant velocity and the encounters themselves are implied to be deterministic collisions between hard spheres.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Background of animal models\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Animal movements are generally not linear, and so ecologists have typically modeled animal movement as including a random component. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 The default assumption is of Brownian-like random movement which lead to diffusion models of dispersal. Diffusion rates have been related to actual movements of animal movements via correlated random walk and continuous correlated movement models, which add realism by including some local directional persistence. \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Diffusion models rely on the assumption that the trajectory of each individual population is described with the same parameters for each individual. \
\ls1\ilvl2
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Thus there's a tension between diffusion models (which describe homogenous populations of randomly moving individuals) and ideal free gas based models (which assume a heterogeneous population of linearly moving individuals). \
\ls1\ilvl2
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 This is particularly interesting because diffusion models are the canonical null models of animal dispersal while ideal free gas based models are the null model of encounters in ecology, implicitly underlying the rate parameters in Lotka-Volterra type predator-prey models. \
\ls1\ilvl2
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Real moving and interacting organisms are described by a mixture of the two extremes: a heterogeneous population of randomly moving individuals. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Modeling heterogenous individuals moving randomly\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Several studies have analytically addressed heterogenous populations in diffusion models, but most studies that expand encounter rate models to randomly moving organisms have been based on simulation. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 A recent review concluded that the turning angle distributions, detection distance, step length and step number all have interacting non-linear effects, so quantitative predictions are only possible using simulation. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 The few simulation-based (or hybrid analytical and simulation) encounter studies suggest that movements with less direction persistence (more diffusive movements) lead to longer target hitting times, and thus lower encounter rates. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Some analytical approaches do exist, and it's been found that for diffusive movement, the first hitting time (or first passage time) in a heterogenous environment can be obtained as a solution to a partial differential equation. This technique has been applied to animal movements in a statistically described environment and found that one-dimensional encounter rates scale linearly with target density for linear movements but as density squared fro diffusive movements. \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}This seems related to the fact that variance (displacement) scales linearly with time in ballsitic (linear) movement but scales as variance-squared in diffusive movement\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\f0\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Interestingly, for nondestructive foraging, any kind of movement (ballistica, brownian, or Levy) yields the same encounter rate since they depend entirely on density. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Besides linear movement, the other assumption of ideal free gas models is that encounters are deterministic: they occur as hard collisions of spheres with a fixed encounter radius. But many ecological encounter processes are probabilistic. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Encounters are discrete events between the search and the targest, the latter of which are distributed with a specific geometry in space and time. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Propose that the calculations of the encounter rate depend on the definiton of the encounter rate, the characteristics of the movement rate, the geometry of the target distribution, and the interaction between the searcher and the targets. 
\b \
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Encounter rate definitions:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Mean encounter rate: the stationary expected number of encounters in an interval of itme. This is relevant for a "continuous" feeder (a system where handling and processing of food takes much less time than encountering food) or for "passive traps" such as counting, camera or fur traps and ambush predators\
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 First encounter rate: the reciprocal of the expected time to first encounter after the search begins its movement from a random location. This is a more relvant quantity to measure in those cases where movements or behaviors are significantly interrupted by an encounter. For example, large terrestrial predators process their prey on a scale of days, during which time the landscape of prey can be significantly reconfigured and the intial location of the predator with respect to the prey can be considered random.\
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Mean and first encounter rates are equal in only a few special cases. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Target dynamics: targets can be static (constant in time) or their dynamics can be governed by a birth and death process. An example of a static target would be a set of pitfall traps that are kept at fixed locations. A dynamic target is a case where the targets are living organisms which appear and disappear on the landscape continuously (ground squirrels leaving or entering a landscape of burows, seeds being deposited through their productiona nd dispersal and removed via germenation or decomposition. Targets can also be mobile, but only immobile targets are considered here. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}
\b0 Interactions between searcher and targets: \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 Many kinds of interactions between searchers and targets are possible. For example, in predator-prey dynamics the searcher (the predator) with a wide perception range may bias its movements towards a target (the prey) from a distance. The prey may decrease its encounter rate by changing its behavior when the predator is close. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 To keep things simple, the influence of searcher-target interactions on movement is excluded and consider only the nature of the encounter event itself. \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}This may not be such a bad assumption. Probably assumed that fish don't know about predation risk by boats (I.e. \{Abramsetal:2012\}). And while fishing boats will bias their movements towards prey they've detected, could probably assume that it's not from super far distances (unless they've got spotter planes). \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1
\f0\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 There are two kinds of interactions between searcher and targets: destructive interactions in which a target is consumed upon encounter, and non-destructive interactions, where the target remains uninfluenced by the encounter event. \
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\b0 For simplicity consider only the case of a single searcher and ignore the possibility of target depletion by other searchers. \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}This is quite important, given that this is a big part of thinking about fishermen. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}
\f0 Encounter probability is classified as either "hard": the encounter occurs immediately when a searcher is within a threshold distance from a target, or "soft": here called probabilistic, which occurs at a rate that depends on the distance between the target and the searcher.\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}This might be all I need for fishermen. They have some fish finder and then the encounter probability depends in some way (or is related to) q, catchability. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f0 Encounter kernals: formalize the definitions into a general mathematical framework of encounters in continuous space and time. The examples are limited to two dimensions, though generalizing to higher dimensions is typically straightforward. 
\f1 \
}