{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I have found a paper, \{Gaylord 2005\}, which looks at how size structure changes the yields that MPAs return to fisheries. In this paper they find that MPAs will increase fisheries yields most for species that experience density dependence after dispersal, and that have sedentary, long-lived adults. \
\
Gives some ideas for crucial components to include for ecology:\
- That all fish species have at least two distinct phases: larval (which includes dispersal) and fish\
\

\b Methods
\b0 \
Here they use an integrodifference equation with Gaussian dispersal. They assume symmetric dispersal and that adults don\'92t move from where they are dispersed to. Also assume Beverton-Holt/Ricker density dependence either before or after larvae are dispersed. \
\
They add two stages to the model in order to capture the fact that older, larger adults tend to build up inside reserves. This change means that larvae not only compete with each other, but also with already-resident adults. They also assume that older adults have twice the reproductive rate as newly dispersed individuals, trying to mimic the fact that big adults are more fecund. Also assume that older individuals weigh 1.5x that of newly dispersed individuals. Again to account for increased biomass inside reserves. Both adults and juveniles are assumed to have the same natural survival rate, and juveniles move into the adult class at rate gamma. \
\
Fishing is implemented either \'93traditionally\'94 or with MPA reserves. Traditional fishing is some specified fraction of the individuals are fished out uniformly across all space. With MPAs there is some fraction of land set aside from which no fishing takes place, while fishing occurs without restriction everywhere else. \

\b \
Notes
\b0 \
This means that they assume that there\'92s no spatial structure to the fish population except that imposed by MPAs. \
\

\b Results
\b0 \
Unsurprisingly, when pre-dispersal density dependence is present for a population that is not size structured, MPAs do worse than than traditional fishing in terms of fisheries yields. This is because the increase in fish density inside reserves reduces larval production. \
\
When size-structure is considered the MPA\'92s effectiveness is amplified. \
\

\b Main conclusions
\b0 \
MPAs should be extremely helpful for species that have post-dispersal density dependence, and adults whose fecundity increases with size and are sedentary. }