{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This paper, \{Micheli 2004a\}, looks at how a two-patch predator prey system responds when one patch is an MPA. This reminds me a lot of \{Abramsetal:2012\}. Interesting to see what the differences actually are. \
\

\b Notes
\b0 \
Mention the importance of spatial harvesting response in efficacy of reserve establishment and cites Walters (2000). \
\
Fisher and Frank (2002) might be a good resource for understanding which life-histories might be most vulnerable to spatial distribution of fishing effort. They have a 31 year data set of abundance over 70 species (that is publicly available, I think, in OBIS) and look at before and after a fishing ban was instituted. Find that there is a signficiant difference (in some? In all?) before and after, and that it may be related to dispersal ability. \
\
This paper explicilty asks the question: what combinations of species traits, enviornmental conditions and human interventions are more likely to lead to counterintuitive effects of protection. Which is a nice phrasing of what I want to do too. \
\

\b Methods
\b0 \
Make a predator-prey model with two patches, one where fishing takes place, one protected. Have two sets of parameters. The first describes the biology of the predator and prey: life history (prey growth rate, predator attack rate, and larval dispersal). The second describes management: the fraction of each species that is harvested outside the reserve and the fraction of area dedicated to the reserve. Then looked at consumer-resource dynamics as you vary the lifehistory and dispersal characteristics of the species, the size of the reserve and the fishing intensity outside of the reserve. \
\
Goal is to find what combinations of parameters lead to the extinction of one or both species. \
\
Take model and non-dimensonalize it\
\
[On page 658: haven't really gone through the model]}