{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Project 1: Functional Response\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fisheries science is focused on undestanding and managing fisheries, and hence deals with the intersection of ecological and economic forces and dynamics. Starting with the Gordon-Schaefer model (1954?) there has been a tradition of modeling dynamics of fisheries effort and harvested fish stocks to make predictions for how these two forces play out. The Gordon-Schaefer model made clear predictions that an open access fishery could expect a tragedy of the commons to occur. \
\
Since this classic model, theoretical treatments of the dynamics of fisheries have become increasingly ecological and eocnomically sophisticated. Ecologically the Gordon-Schaefer model of a single uniform fish stock has given way to size- and age-structured fish populations, and then from single species to multipe species treatments \{May 1979\} to ecosystem-based management approaches. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9A59A683-49F7-462B-B557-FDAD166528B3"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Developments in fisheries economics have relaxed the requirement of constant effort, constant price and costs, and others. }}\
\
However despite these advances, there remains a gap in the literature: in studies considering the dynamics of harvesting and the exploited fish, either there's great deal of detail about species interactions, while harvesting remains simplistic ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AA9A37A5-024F-4761-A98B-800BB9314B9A"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ie this study}}) or human harvesitng behavior is more complex but the fish dynamics are ignored (ie {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2D8C45D6-832A-45D4-8A4F-A51BCFD8EDF5"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clark & Mangel}}). \
\
Despite the considerable advances in sophistication and detail in these models, few studies consider how the ecology of the fish and the behavior of the fishermen jointly determine a fishery system's dynamics. The Schaefer model has not recieved the same treatment that many predator-prey systems have: incorporation of functional responses. }