{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Previous Work
\b0 \
That said, there are a number of case studies that look to determine fishermen's harvesting {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://09FA2285-7A87-4F14-A8C9-69A869AA656B"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
behavior over space}}, but none that consider feedbacks between the two subsystems. \
\
\{Carpenter 1994\} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9C0C7D88-93C0-4FAE-851B-FCA7DEC53A80"}}{\fldrslt come closest}}, where they use a 33 year data set of anglers and fish (walleyes) in a Wisconsin freshwater lake. Found that fish had density-dependent dynamics but that harvesting by anglers followed a type III functional response. \
\
In particular {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://90EB4A0F-5CD9-49C3-B7BA-778FE9E227C8"}}{\fldrslt \{Lorenzen 2006\}}} look at estimating Yield-Effort curves for multiple species on a reef. They come up with the idea that the Schaeffer model is not supported, and a sigmoidal response is. \
\
There has been a general treatment of under what conditions the linear response between abundance and CPUE is appropriate. However there has been no general analytic analysis of what a nonlinear CPUE (functional response) does to typical management reference points such as MSY or their stability. \
\
There is a number of instances of studies looking at optimal harvesting rates of interacting species, but no simple analytical studies that consider that the harvesting behavior itself may vary nonlinearly with fish abundance. }