{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Project #2 Constructing a framework to generate predictions for what determines harvesting (foraging) strategy\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To date there has been no general explanation for how harvesting strategy ought to vary depending on system charactersitics. There have been many case studies of how fishermen {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B5564F02-F9BA-4FFB-957A-E7F63BD62A6E"}}{\fldrslt harvest in particular systems}}, but no work that has generalized these observations. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AFB22B77-CB45-4259-8892-57654626A834"}}{\fldrslt In other predator-prey systems foraging predators search strategy, while subject to perhaps physical or evolutionary constraints, still has a foraging strategy that depends in some way on the ecological characteristics of its prey.}} \
\
Crucially, harvesting strategy will depend on both the movement and behavior of the fish and fishermen. Harvesting success is a destructive encounter (from the perspective of the fish) between fish and fishermen, and thus depends indirectly on how other fishermen in the same system encounter fish. \
\
I propse to do a thorough literature review of existing case studies to generate hypotheses for how fishing strategies have been observed (or hypothesized) to vary with different system charactersitics. While a basic first step, this is necessary to synthesize literature from a diverse conceptual (anthropology, fisheries economics, and fisheries science), and methodological (descriptive, empirical, theoretical, statisticsal) viewpoints. The goal of this literature review is to determine what evidence currently exists to suggest how harvesting strategies should vary with system characteristics. \
\
Given the heterogenous literature on the subject, I have constructed a general framework by which to classify these case studies in order to organize them in a way to make them comparable. Thus this literature review will generate a series of relationships between system variables hypothesized to be important and the way fishermen harvest fish. \
\
In both foraging theory and dynamic state variable modeling (DSVM), the decision of the individual depends on the current state of the individual, the state of the environment and what the next step will likely bring. These states of the individual fisherman and environment can be classified in four different dimensions for a fishery: ecology, technology, information, and management. \
\
\
\
}