{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \{Holling 1959\}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \{Holling 1959\} first introduced the idea of a functional response, to relax the assumption that encounter rates increased linearly with abundance. \
\
Holling's functional response is 
\b [definition]
\b0  \
\
Holling derived these functional responses by examining the predation of the European pine sawfly while in cocoons. Three small mammals prey on the cocooned sawflies.   
\b [methods]\
\

\b0 Conceptualizes that the predation rate (number of prey individuals consumed per unit time). Assumes that this predation rate may vary according to the densities of either the predator or the prey, characteristics of the prey or the predator, and alternate food sources available to the predator. In the experimental set up, the uniform habitat and cocooned sawflies means that you can assume there is no variation in alternate food available to predators, and that the sawflies do not respond to the predators. And because the predators are all the same, the habitat is the same and the interactions with prey items will not be affected by the prey, can assume characteristics of the predator don't matter. \
\
Thus Holling only considers how predator and prey density affect predation rate. Plots the number of consumed sawflies on the y axis and the abundance of cocooned sawflies on the x axis. \
\

\b Notes\

\b0 Requires that you know true abundance underlying harvesting. But this is essentially what catch per unit is\'85? Catch per unit effort is assumed to go up with abundance. This is because animals always put out a set amount of 'effort'. But fishermen can put out a varying amount of effort, but also can be more efficient at encountering prey. \
\
I wonder how people model predation rate of predators that learn. I think it's the type III functional response. Which adds support for considering first what happens when a type III functional harvesting response is used. \
\
Although for fishermen, it's not necessarily true that they develop a 'search image' at some threshold density and quickly rise in predation efficiency. \
\
And it's also not true that fishermen max out at some handling rate-limited harvest rate. Certainly that's true on any given trip. But fishermen are then forced to return back to shore (or processor) to unload and start again. And management puts caps on total allowable catch. \
\
Solomon (1949) might be the first person to use the term 'functional response' to describe the change in the number of prey consumed by individual predators and the term 'numerical response' to describe the change in density of predators. \
\
This might be useful for fishermen too. Functional repsonse changes with information, gear, ecology, and the numerical response has to do with the total effort expended. }