{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Foraging Strategies\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 As previously mentioned, what's missing is a general treatment of how harvesting behavior can be expected to vary at the level of the individual and the population level implicatios for both the dynamics of the fish stock and the fishermen harvesting the species. \
\
This will be particularly valuable as it allow a more mechanistic understanding of population level phenomena. CPUE is a population level metric commonly used as a proxy for fish abundance in management analyses. CPUE is known to be nonlinearlly associated with true abundance and mechanisms have been suggested to account for such variation. \
\
In the 1980s there were several papers that demonstrated possible mechanisms: catchability is a random variable \{Cooke 1984\}, information sharing \{Mangel 1983\}, and others. \
\
However, to my knowledge there has been no rigorous theoretical treatment about how the foraging strategy of the fishermen should vary as a result of system level changes. \{Hilborn 1992\} discuss generally how CPUE should vary with characteristics of the fishermen and fish, and proposed that fishermen characteristics that improve search efficiency leads to hyperstable relationship between CPUE and catch, while spatial preferences lead to hyperdepletion. In fish, the distribution of the fish over space determine the relationship between CPUE and abundace, with none uniform distributions of fish generally leading to hyperdepletion. However it's not clear that the characteristics of the fishermen's searching efficiency will vary independently of the characteristics of the fish. Indeed, I expect that the harvesting strategy will vary depending on the fish ecology, the gear used, the information available and the management in place. \
\
Here I propose to construct a framework based on these listed atttributes to develop a set of hypotheses about how foraging strategies should vary with system level characteristics. \
\
In US commercial fisheries, fishermen are involved in a competitive foraging game. Fishing can be conceptualized as fishermen searching for food items (fish) in a series of patches. Given a set of patches and a distribution of prey, there may be an optimal way to allocate effort searching and harvesting. The decisions fishermen need to make are many: how to allocate search effort, when to leave one patch for another, and because fish are a depletable reasource, these decisions depends not only on the charteristics of the fishermen and the fish targeted, but on all the other boats strategies as well. }