{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 The New Fisheries Economics: Incentives across many margins\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Broad move to align incentives of harvesters with the objectives of optimal management.\
\
The Schaefer model predicts biological overexploitation and complete rent dissapation. \
\
The salience of this single-stock model comes from the fact that fisheries management has defined the commons problem as one of open access to a stock. THus incentives have been presented along this margin: fix this aspect of fisheries and the commons problem is solved. \
\
On the basis of this intuition, ITQs have been adopted widely in industrialized countries. And while there is evidence that adoption of catch shares has led to improved profits and biological outcomes, other work highlights the ways in which other {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DF45521F-CB39-4E5E-8475-F88AB4BD37DF"}}{\fldrslt margins}} are likely to matter. Fisheries may be interdependent on other stocks or other ocean uses (mining, shipping, etc.). \
\
Recent work in fisheries economics that examine these many margins is diverse topically and methodologically. Topically these works analyze within-season beahvior, fish life history, ecological dependence, spatial feastures, multispecies management, and market interactions. However all attempt to understand, measure, or design incentives that address margins that are left out of the single-stock surplus produciton model that characterizies fisheries as a system with a single input and single output. \
\
In this review \{Smith 2012a\} focuses on management approaches that are analogous to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2EB234F8-788A-43DD-9FBA-3F23779C35BB"}}{\fldrslt intensive and extensive margins}}. In the traditional Schaefer model, the intensive margin is the single input, effort, and the extensive margin is the single stock of fish. \
\
But in reality effort is not a single input, intensive margins can include amount and type of gear, number of trips and trip length, target species within a multispecies complex, fishing ground, and size of fish. Extensive margins can include entry into a new fishery, switching across fisheries or large regions, and opening up new fisheries, including species, fishing grounds, product types, or sizes of fish that once may not have been profitable. \
\
Although the lines between intensive and extensive margins can be blurry, many management problems in fisheries have been reduced to whether managers should control these various margins. \
\
Most of the following margins are internal to the fishery, but some, such as climate change or marine pollution originating for a sector outside the fishery, will still need to be accounted for when managers design policy. \
\
Although these issues have been in the literature for some time, and a close read of Clark (1990) will turn them up, recent advances are nudging the field towards important empirical questions. }