{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
There has been a great deal of work looking at how harvesting behavior may affect fishery dynamics. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
These studies have focused on population level processes: \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
such as relaxing constant effort harvesting and exploring the possibilities of regime shifts by incorporating functional responses \{Jones 1976\}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}Or individual level processes\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Something\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Some of this work is motivated primarily by understanding the ecology\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Much work has been motivated by understanding the relationship between CPUE and stock abundance. Although these tend to fall in one of two categories: either focusing on how characteristics of the fishermen affect harvesting dynamics or how the characteristics of the targeted fish determine harvesting patterns. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}Human side: \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}General theory for estimating stock size from search data \{Mangel 1985a\}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Fish side: \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Occasionally studies consider both dimensions of the system. These come from the following modeling traditions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}Predator-prey models\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\{Allen 1986\} \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
What is missing is a general explanation of how individual foraging strategies will vary with characteristics of both the targeted fish and human harvesters and how this manifests as emergent population-level dynamics.\
\
Foraging strategies of predators depend on the distribution of their prey, the 'catchability' of the prey, the handling time each successful catch requires to process, and the energy requirements of the predator. These individual-level characteristics combine into functional responses, population-level descriptions for how predation rate should vary with prey abundance. \
\
Fundamentally this is what CPUE is, how the catch (predation) rate of a fishermen should vary with fish (prey) abundance. It's a functional response for fishermen. \
\
Individual-level explanations have been proposed based on both fisher and fish characteristics. \{Hilborn 1992\} suggest that improved search efficiency and low handling times on the part of fishers will tend to promote a type II functional response, or hyperstability in the fisheries literature. Non-random spatial distributions of fish, on the other hand, will instead tend to hyperdepletion, where the predation rate falls much faster than actual abundance (there is no analogous functional response in the ecological literature for this case). \
\
How animals behave individually, including work on foraging theory, has provided insights for updating simplistic species interaction functions in predator prey models. However, as with fisheries models, foraging theory has not provided satisfactory theory to enable mechanistic explainations to scale from the individual-level to community level processes \{Railsback 2013\}. Thus using a fisheries system to better understand how harvesting strategy results from system level characteristics and emergent population level dynamics turns out to be a question of applied and fundamental interest in ecology. \
\
In order to characterize harvesting strategies, when and where fishermen distribute their effort, I will consider the intraseasonal dynamics of harvesting. Fishermen respond rapidly to changing ecological and informational conditions, and their harvesting strategies are emergent based on these millions of decisions as they aggregate throughout the year. \
\
The harvesting strategies themselves are a set of decision rules common to commercial fisheries. These decisions include patch residence times, \
\
Foraging theory is the main approach available for considering behavior at an individual scale. However this theory is constrained by the assumptions that it deals with only individual level behavior and does not make predictions.  \
\
\
Similarly I propose that investigating what foraging theory predicts at an individual level, searching for evolutionarily stable harvesting strategies and how they vary with \
\
Foraging theory primarily deals with predators that consume huge numbers of behaviorally inert and sessile prey \{Brown 1999\}. \
\
Considering results from previous work in predator-prey systems which integrate the individual to the population level responses, Rosenzweig & McArthur (1963) looked at predator prey systems in which the predators regulate the system by killing prey (N-regulated system) versus one in which the predators regulated the prey by scaring the prey away (\'b5-regulated system). Found that a catch-22 was present. Highly efficient predators resulted in intrinsically unstable populations (non-equilibrium fluctuations can lead to extinctions of one or both species) while ineffeicient predators gave rise to extrinsically unstable populations (external perturbations can easily cause predators to go extinct). However they found that behavioral responses on the part of both predators and prey could avoid this catch 22 and stablize the system.  \
\
What's missing is an understanding of what types of systems should give rise to what type of search characteristics on the part of fishermen. Certainly the spatial distribution of fish is set by the ecological characteristics of the fish, but how these ecological characteristics interact with the gear fishermen use, the information they share, and the management in place, to result in efficient or inefficient search is not immediately clear. \
\
Foraging theory provides a mechanistic, individual-level framework in which to determine how system characteristics tend to promote particular foraging strategies. \
\
\{Abrams 2010; Spalinger 1992; Abrams 1982; Brown 1999; Tschirhart 2012\}\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 Specifically I will use this literature review to develop hypotheses about what the evolutionarily stable strategy for harvesting should be. \
\
The next step is to translate these strategies into functional responses. Such functional responses will allow the translation between individual behavior and population level dynamics. \
\
These relationships will be the starting hypotheses to test in an ABM, to see if strategies do indeed vary how they have been observed to in the literature. And how they can be related to functional responses.}