{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid104\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs40 \cf0 General Outline
\fs26 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f1 \cf2 Motivation: interested in feedbacks between resource users and resource, how one can shape the other and vice-versa. As a case study I want to look at harvesting practices (defined here as where and when fishermen harvest).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0 \cf2 Idea
\f1\fs24 : Hypothesize that harvesting practices arise from a combination of ecological, technological, managerial and social constraints, and the drive to maximize social standing and profit.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Constraints here shape the landscape of the system. Examples of ecological constraints could be: how the fish move (magnitude of distances, variability in location), demographic events (salmon return at one time of the year to rivers, physical condition deteriorates as you move closer to the river);\
{\listtext	\'95	}Technological constraints are the size of boat you have, the gear that\'92s on it, whether or not you can harvest more than one species (generalist versus specialist).\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}This is another major breakdown. Idea is that according to some recent food-web theory/pred prey dynamics, if you\'92re a generalist you\'92re able to surf on peaks of abundance of a bunch of different types of prey. But specialists\'92 dynamics are much more reflective of their prey. Hypothesis is that you could see the same thing in fishermen. Depending on price and costs (maybe in terms of abundance here and search time) you\'92d see \'91prey-switching\'92 of fishermen. Thus generalist fishermen would respond to changes in constraints and drivers differently than specialist fishermen.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Social constraints (i.e. information and norms). Demographic (experience) and information constrain your available actions.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Drivers are conditions individual fishermen are hoping to maximize: profit and social standing immediately come to mind. And they\'92re not necessarily synonymous with the other.\
{\listtext	\'95	}I can\'92t be the first one to want to do this: what\'92s been done? Need to survey..\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Fleet dynamics literature (and fishery biology generally?)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}SES modeling literature\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Fisheries anthropology literature\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Economic literature\'85? (Econometric models for harvesting practices)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs40 \cf2 Structure of the Proposal\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Introduction (motivation and background)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Harvesting practices (as previously defined) scale up to provide emergent properties of the fisheries system. Decisions about where and when do fish result in variations in total catch and net profits, discards and bycatch.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Harvesting practices essentially a fast variable that scales up to affect slow variables such as the composition of fishery sector (entries and exits) or investments in gear.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Also lets more insight into CPUE which can be affected by constraints identified.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Should survey work on harvesting practices:\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Are there spatially explicit analyses about where fishermen fish?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Which explanatory variables best explain patterns of harvesting (if any)?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Comparing and contrasting across ecological, management practices are there any signatures we can attribute to ecological or management only? Or gear only?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Common complaints (complaints that I need to address)\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Why even bother trying to bring together social and ecological science? what\'92s the point?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Section 1: Explaining the theory\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1
\b \cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}
\f0\b0 Idea
\f1 : Hypothesize that harvesting practices arise from a combination of ecological, technological, managerial and social constraints, and the drive to maximize social standing and profit.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Constraints: how do I theorize these constraints operate on fisheries\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Ecology\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl3\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Movement of species (daily, habitat preference, stochastic)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Phenology (salmon making runs back to rivers)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Weather in particular ocean [not sure if this should be here, since this isn\'92t related to the harvested species]\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Theory to use: foraging theory\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Gear (technology)\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl3\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}How big boat is\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Fish finders, what not (mediates the ecology, I think)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Whether gear can catch more than one type of species of interest\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Social\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl3\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Information (socially derived information)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Social norms\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Demographics (i.e. experience of captain, personally derived information)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Drivers\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Profit\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}Social standing\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Section 2: Case Study\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Review existing models of fishermen?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Use @Gezelius:2007 as a case study: can I turn this into anthropological study into a model?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Doesn\'92t fit yet\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa200
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}Making sure drivers generate results that are robust to uncertainty (things that aren\'92t so fragile that if responses vary slightly whole outcomes changes)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs40 \cf2 Questions to answer\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}How to take the framework and put it into a model? This is not so much a question for my thesis to answer, but one that I need to figure out before my proposal is due. I think.\
{\listtext	2.	}According to framework, if any of the constraints change, the harvesting practices should also change. This seems to be the biggest prediction to test.\
{\listtext	3.	}Ecology: Fishermen are following prey, longer runs of fishing to locate prey and stay with good patches.\
{\listtext	4.	}Technology: Single species versus multi-species?\
{\listtext	5.	}Management: ITQs versus derby fishing the most obvious example. Can space out fishing trips throughout the year versus only when the fishing season is open for two weeks. This should affect information transfer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\f0\fs26 \cf2 How does information mediate these drivers?
\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}Ecology: Information transfer is key in highly stochastic species (or maybe at some max level of stochasticity randomly choosing is as good as knowing), cost-benefits of sharing information. Costas are that you have to share with more, benefits are that you might get shared with more often if you share. Information less valuable the more people who know about it.\
}