{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;
\f3\fnil\fcharset204 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs56 \cf0 Summarizing what I have so far\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 The framework\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
There's 4 constraints and 2 drivers operating in a social-ecological system of fishing. Hypothesize that it's ecology, technology, management, and social drivers/information availability. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
ABM ideas/plans\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The plan is to use ABM modeling and analytic approximations to explore how harvesting practices change with varying system constraints (ecology, technology, management, social drivers/information). The goal here is to explore how natural and social drivers interact. To break this big simulation thing down, first how the simulation will work\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
The Simulation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The simulation will be have a 2x2 grid that has fish and fishermen represented on it.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ecology
\f1 : Fish are represented as a static field. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
It will be governed by the logistic equation. \
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A parameter will govern how the carrying capacity ($K$) varies over space. This will make the fish more heterogenous. If $K$ varies not only spatially but temporally, this will simulate fish moving across the landscape. \
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is technically a fishermen behavior, but the fishermen will have variable memory capacity. This means that if the carrying capacity is changing temporally, and the change happens quickly enough that the fishermen don't stay with the patch, then their memory will start to degrade the longer they spend trying to find it again. This is also true of when information is passed over long distances. What will happen in the model is that the fishermen forget where they're going on the way over there. But what we're trying to represent is the fact that after awhile that information is no longer very valuable. Especially for fish that are very mobile and stochastic (i.e. herring). \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Information/social drivers:
\f1  Fishermen will move across the landscape making decisions about where to fish. (Unresolved if they can also make decisions about when)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The basic framework will be similar to Allison's migration model. Fishermen will have different sources of information to make a decision. Over time the fishermen will be able to change their preference for which source of information to preferentially use. The sources of information are\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Random movement (null source)\
\ls1\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Personal experience (where fishermen remember getting good catches regardless of how they found that catch)\
\ls1\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Local gradient tracking (according to technology parameter -- i.e. fish finders present or not -- can look around and see what they see)\
\ls1\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Passive observation (fishermen within zone of observation, if look like they've found fish, can go over there\
\ls1\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Socially directed information (a social network, not sure if static or will be allowed to change) where pairs signal to others when they've found fish. Ideally this will be dynamic so that if you're signaling to too many people, you'll reduce that number so that you balance between signaling and keeping it for yourself)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gear/technology:
\f1  will be able to change. This governs what type of effort (a cost that's tracked, probably a combination of time it takes to pick up fish and process before you start fishing again, really a predator functional response) is required for a given quantity of fish. Will also affect your perception of local gradient and how much it costs you to travel different differences (some boats are small and fuel efficient, others are monsters and it's expensive for them to go far). \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Management:
\f1  Determines how much you're able to catch in total (TAC), or if you have a quota (ITQs), or there's spatial restrictions (MPAs). Could also experiment with management not often seen like port taxes and others that I can't think of at the moment. Also cooperatives where the fishermen share the total amount of fish they catch. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 It's not entirely clear how each will be put into the model. But the goal is that each constraint could be set to its end cases (absent, =0; completely present, =1). Also it would be ideal if the strategies of the fishermen could evolve in 2 ways. First is that they could choose what type of information to weight most highly, but if they choose the directed social information, that they can change their network connections. \
Another part of this is that there's the process of signaling to a clique-member, but there's also the process of someone asking you for information and whether or not you give them correct info. So there should be direct signaling. Some probability where you signal out to those in your network, and some probability that when you don't have fish, you send a \'93request\'94 to random nodes in the network. And then if you get false information (you go somewhere and there wasn't any fish) then you reduce the weight you give that person's advice in the future while simultaneously making it less likely that you'll randomly form a connection between you and their node when you update. \
Which leads me to another form of the social network. If you're doing poorly with your social network, you flip some of the connections. Could either be random (where you just randomly drop and add other connections). Or it could be specific, you remember who gives you good information (where you end up finding fish more often than not) as opposed to those that give you bad information. This gets at the idea of ostracism. If you give good information, you're likely to have reliable partners. If not, then you're likely to be not invited to clique formation and end up on your own. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
What are the possible outputs of the model: the response variables?
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Total catch averaged over all fishermen (median, variance in catch between fishermen).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Total costs (fuel, time spent catching, typical effort calculate in fisheries science).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Total profit (total catch $-$ costs). Again average, median, variance.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 Have not figured out about how to include biological feedbacks. Somewhat fraught issue about how fishing affects fish, and what EBM is all about. Understanding impacts. But perhaps could pull out some general hypotheses/scenarios and include those relationships in the simulation (how fish reproduction is a function of where and how fish are pulled out of the water. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Some questions include\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When you allow different types of information to be present, do fishermen harvest differently?\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How does an ideal free distribution of fish affect fishing behavior. This is what happened in the NE Canadian cod collapse, catch went up before the collapse, but everyone was fishing in a tiny area. As density went down, more cod packed into high quality habitats. Which is where fishing concentrated. \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ITQs: does varying initial distributions change distributions of strategies?\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How does the price change behavior. If fishermen have access to knowing about likely profit, how do they change their fishing behavior. Also something about some awareness of the end of the fishing season. The closer you get to the end, do you make take risks?\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Do particular types of fishermen go extinct? Fishermen with certain classes of gear? Certain strategies?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Things to keep in mind\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Need to do literature review to classify different subtypes, which are the main classes to vary the simulation over?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Need to be sure that the constraints that I've identified are \\textit\{actually\} independent. Because if I vary things as if they were independent and they're not, then that invalidates results. \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
At each stage that I have results, can I pare down the model to make it more simple? When two things seem to have a relationship. Can I preserve the basic qualitative nature of the relationship while reducing complexity of model?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Be aware about chaotic blow-ups. Use understanding of sub-types of systems to control parameter values and functional forms. Think carefully about when I need to add non-linear relationships. And think that before I have to change structure or parametric values, that it might just need some critical damping. \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Need to include some feedbacks on the fish. Should do a literature review of all the different ways fishing is expected to impact fish. Need to include these feedbacks if I want to examine sustainability of different types of fisheries.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The point of generals is say: this is the best that's out there, and here's how I intend to do better.  \
}