{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red254\green243\blue142;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The goal here is to start gathering sources that outline what theory has been done in fish SES systems, and what models already exist. In particular I\'92m trying to answer the questions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}What are the questions these authors asked from their theory? \
{\listtext	2.	}What is the theory these papers used?\
{\listtext	3.	}What does the model look like\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 I probably should read a bit more on the philosophy of modeling. I\'92m a little shaky on exactly the thought process that goes into making a model (why a model, do you have a question first? If you have a question about how things work, wouldn\'92t that just lead to empirical work to see if things work that way? What types of questions lead you to modeling?)\
I\'92m starting by going through 3 recent papers: Fulton et al. (2011); van Putten et al. (2012); Gezelius (2007), two of which are reviews of models that incorporate fishermen\'92s behaviors and the third is an anthropological paper on the Norway blue whiting fishery that I\'92m interesting in trying to use as a case study as a transformation from anthro study to SES model.\
\

\f1 [#Fultonetal:2011;]: Human behaviour: the key source of uncertainty in fisheries management\

\f0 Main point of this paper is that while fisher behavior is getting a more interest, the uncertainty generated from fishermen behavior is not included in most fisheries models. The papers of interest are:\
\

\b [#Hennessey\cb2 Healey\cb1 :2000;]
\f1\b0 \

\f0 Economic, social and cultural drivers can cause fishers to act in unanticipated ways, which can in turn undermine the intent of management actions Healey (2000).\

\b \
[#Nielsen:2003;]
\b0 \
Fisher decision making and behavior is a fertile field Fulton et al. (2011). \
\

\b [#Wilsonetal:2006;]
\b0 \
Fisher decision making and behavior is a fertile field Fulton et al. (2011).\
\

\b [#Nostbakken:2008;]
\b0 \
Fisher decision making and behavior is a fertile field Fulton et al. (2011). \
\

\f1 [#Folkeetal:2002;]
\f0 \
Combines the insights of both economists and biologists with direct experience of fishery management to focus more squarely on the role played by policy in motivating fisher behavior and subsequent fishery outcomes (Fulton et al., 2011). Some of the most interesting insights into the design of robust resource management systems such as fisheries comes from attempts to view these systems at a high level, and as complex systems of interacting biophysical and socio-economic subsystems (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Hilbornetal:2005;]\

\b0 Combines the insights of both economists and biologists with direct experience of fishery management to focus more squarely on the role played by policy in motivating fisher behavior and subsequent fishery outcomes (Fulton et al., 2011)\

\b \
[#Graftonetal:2006;]\

\b0 Combines the insights of both economists and biologists with direct experience of fishery management to focus more squarely on the role played by policy in motivating fisher behavior and subsequent fishery outcomes (Fulton et al., 2011)\
\

\b [#Graftonetal:2008;]
\b0 \
Combines the insights of both economists and biologists with direct experience of fishery management to focus more squarely on the role played by policy in motivating fisher behavior and subsequent fishery outcomes (Fulton et al., 2011)\
\

\b [#Branchetal:2006;]\

\b0 It is possible to sometimes predict the aggregate behavior of fishing fleets under a range of management scenarios (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Hilborn:2007;]\

\b0 It is possible to sometimes predict the aggregate behavior of fishing fleets under a range of management scenarios (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Palmer:1991;]\

\b0 Modeling individual behavior and its collective consequences using agent-based modeling (Fulton et al., 2011). \
\

\b [#DreyfusLeon:1999;]
\b0 \
Modeling individual behavior and its collective consequences using agent-based modeling (Fulton et al., 2011). \
\

\b [#Littleetal:2004;]
\b0 \
Modeling individual behavior and its collective consequences using agent-based modeling (Fulton et al., 2011). \

\b \
[#SoulieThebaud:2006;]\

\b0 Modeling individual behavior and its collective consequences using agent-based modeling (Fulton et al., 2011). \

\b \
[#Fudenberg:2006]
\b0 \
Behavioral economics has only recently started to be incorporated into dynamic fisheries models (Fulton et al., 2011). \

\b \
[#Pesendorfer:2006;]
\b0 \
Behavioral economics has only recently started to be incorporated into dynamic fisheries models (Fulton et al., 2011). \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://826F395C-B719-41E1-84E5-E442D4130964"}}{\fldrslt 
\b Fulton et al. (2007)
\b0 \
}}MSE increases understanding of the link between specific behavioral motivations and the different management tools (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#BradyWaldo:2009;]\

\b0 MSE increases understanding of the link between specific behavioral motivations and the different management tools (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Walkeretal:2002;]
\b0 \
Some of the most interesting insights into the design of robust resource management systems such as fisheries comes from attempts to view these systems at a high level, and as complex systems of interacting biophysical and socio-economic subsystems (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Bennettetal:2003;]
\b0 \
Some of the most interesting insights into the design of robust resource management systems such as fisheries comes from attempts to view these systems at a high level, and as complex systems of interacting biophysical and socio-economic subsystems (Fulton et al., 2011).\
\

\b [#Ostrom:2009;]
\b0 \
Some of the most interesting insights into the design of robust resource management systems such as fisheries comes from attempts to view these systems at a high level, and as complex systems of interacting biophysical and socio-economic subsystems (Fulton et al., 2011).}