{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Goal of this document\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Outline the thesis, and have next steps for each section. I've listed the major questions and broadly how I'm going to go about answering them. Where possible I've listed a starting point. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Motivation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Interested in feedbacks between resource users and resource, how one can shape the other and vice-versa. As a case study I want to look at harvesting practices (defined here as where and when fishermen harvest). Hypothesize that harvesting practices arise from a combination of ecological, technological, managerial and social constraints, and the drive to maximize social standing and profit.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Constraints here shape the landscape of the system. Examples of ecological constraints could be: how the fish move (magnitude of distances, variability in location), demographic events (salmon return at one time of the year to rivers, physical condition deteriorates as you move closer to the river);\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Technological constraints are the size of boat you have, the gear that's on it, whether or not you can harvest more than one species (generalist versus specialist).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Social constraints (i.e. information and norms). Demographic (experience) and information constrain your available actions.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Drivers are conditions individual fishermen are hoping to maximize: profit and social standing immediately come to mind. And they're not necessarily synonymous with the other.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Question\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are there evolutionarily stable strategies in fishermen, and do those depend on the ecology, technology, gear and information available to actors?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Strategies\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Specifically, in a fishing trip, fishers are faced with a series of basic questions. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How does one search for fish most efficiently (given limits of available technology and management).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
After embarking on a search strategy, if you find a patch of fish, when should you stop looking for something better? \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When should I leave this patch of fish and start looking for another one?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 How do the answers to these questions (and hence strategies) change as system characteristics change?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Plan\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Develop game-theoretic predictions for how ESS varies depending on ecology, management, gear and information. The fishing SES encompasses three levels of interaction: how fishermen interact with the environment, each other, and with management. I will consider these pairwise interactions one at a time. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Start with interactions between fishermen and the environment\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Starting point: Should be largely re-writing basic foraging theory results for fishermen. But still the payoffs for fishermen will likely be frequency-dependent even if information is not being shared. \
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Specifically looking at how different ecologies affect harvesting strategy\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How spatially autocorrelated are the fish?\
\ls3\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How temporally autocorrelated are the fish?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How different assumptions on how fish are affected by fishing affect harvesting strategy\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How different assumptions about cost and prices affects strategy\
\ls3\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How gear type affects strategy\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Assuming one type of environment, how do interactions between fishermen change harvesting strategy\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Starting point: Start with producer-scrounger theory probably\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Number of fishermen affect strategy\
\ls3\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Passive observation affect strategy\
\ls3\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Directed signaling affect strategy\
\ls3\ilvl2\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Allowing punishment via withholding information affect strategy\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How do interactions between management and fishermen affect strategy\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Input versus output control affect harvesting strategy\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ITQs versus TAC versus MPAs\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Policy applications? \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Which are the sensitive parameters in determining the ESS for a given situation, and what are the set of parameters that can be effected by management, is there overlap?\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Doesn't fit yet\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How does calculation of abundance (whether assuming abundance is proportional to catch or via surveys) affect system as a whole?\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How do within season dynamics effect between season dynamics?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Methods\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Use analytical and/or toy models to explore each level of interaction\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Use ABM to further test strategies, confirm or disagree with simple models?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Does this theory generate predictions that can be tested by data to which I have access (catch logs, VMS data, observer logs, etc.). If so, collaborate with James and NSF grant team on it. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What are the variances in catch success? Min/max ratio?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Challenges\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I need to explain phenomena, rather than processes. I think what I have above is an example of processes. I think phenomena are questions like: what difference does having a fish finder make? Will artisnal and commercial fishermen have the same qualitative strategies? Or will it just be a scaling issue? Why do fish always collapse? Is it something about the composition of the fishery on top of it?\
The phenomena that Steve got excited about was recreational versus commercial fisheries. Recreational fisheries take a substantial amount of the catch and have different rules applied to them than do commercial fishermen. So these are two populations that harvest the same resource but should have very different strategies. There should be some resource partitioning, and tradeoffs. Recreational fishermen should dominate close to the coast, because they don't need to maximize biomass intake. So can be happy at lower densities. Also don't have the gear to go out to George's Bank, for example. \
The other problem that Steve brought up is when, in the same fishery, will you get different fishermen following different strategies. And the answer is you probably won't. But between fisheries is where you'll see the differences. \
It all comes back to: what's the question I want to ask? What's the phenomena I want to explain? Examples in plants he gave me were: if you add more N plans make fewer roots, but water, they make more. Why? both are below ground resources. Or, if you grow two plants with a partition between them, they're fine. Take that partition away and they each make half as many seeds. Why? It's because they're fighting below ground and putting all their energy into that. \
Another thing I could do is a meta-analysis. Look at stock collapses and see if there are fishery characteristics (what gear type, how many people are in them?) that could explain collapses. Is there a phenomena where some stocks with some types of fisheries on top of them are far more likely to collapse than others? Why then?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Phenomena/So What?
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 The phenomena I'm interested is the unexpected failure of management. There's plenty of examples of the tragedy of the commons, where externalizing the costs but receiving the benefits leads to erosion of our natural resource base. But what I'm focused on are those circumstances when management is applied and things go wrong, but in a way that no one saw coming. Management here could mean policy changes, new recovery plans or regulations applying to how natural resources can be used. In fisheries science these situations are euphemistically called `management surprises.' Because I've been thinking about fishing as a case study, I have mostly fisheries case studies for you. Examples of these management surprises include restrictions on lengths of boats, that just increased dramatically in size.\\footnote\{But then what happened to the fishery? It would be convenient if it then collapsed because of inadequacies of the management\} Another failure of management is the persistent collapse of fish stocks. \
And, at least in fisheries, these management surprises have primarily been attributed to failures to study the ecology of the resource closely enough. This is apparent in the dramatic uptick in complexity and refinement in the fisheries literature. Those of you that have taken Simon's theoretical ecology course are all familiar with the Gordan-Scheffer model on which the Maximum Sustainable Yield metric is derived from. To those uninitiated, it's a model that assumes proportional harvest and a logistic growth recruitment function. From it you can determine the maximum growth rate that can be `sustainably' harvested. Sustainable, in this case, referring to the fact that so long as you harvest this exact amount, the population should never go extinct. Whether or not you leave enough fish for seabirds or seals, that's not included in these first models. However we've progressed quite a way, in the US at least, from the MSY models. Most fisheries in the US are managed now with some awareness of species interactions and there's quite a push towards Ecosystem-Based-Mangement (EBM) where the harvested fish is one small part of a huge ecosystem. And you attempt to understand how fishing fits into this huge context. \
However the ecology is only one part of the equation that could be misrepresented. When you're thinking about stock collapses, there's the issue of how the ecology works, and what drives humans to make the decisions they do, and how humans will harvest the resource. These two systems can each be thought of a sub-system in a much larger system, a socio-ecological system. My contention is that the ecological subsystem has received a great deal of research, and while anthropology and economics have worked on the human subsystem, how the linkage between the two are affected by ecological and human drivers has received much less attention. It is this linkage, I think, that can help explain some of these management surprises. \
Specifically, in US fishery stock assessments (research done by NOAA and NMFS to track the abundances of fish) the way the two sub-systems are linked is via a term called `effort.' Effort is a nebulous term, but can be translated into variables like `days at sea' or `time spent trawling'. It's attempting to measure how much harvesting humans are doing. As you might imagine, there are some serious simplifying assumptions that go into these effort metrics. \
I'm assuming that the probability of a stock is nonrandom. And that some stocks are more likely to collapse than others because of a combination of how the effort is calculate in the fishery, and the actual harvesting strategy that fishermen employ. This rests on the assumption that \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The probability of a stock collapsing is nonrandom\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
That the effort metric is these stock assessments are fragile with respect to a particular type of perturbation (fluctuations in abundance, etc.). \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
That, when analyzed, the theoretically optimal harvesting strategy would predict a very different response to perturbation than the assumption about effort used currently. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 Then the steps to seeing if this project is feasible/my intuition is based on anything are\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are the probabilities of stocks that have a US stock assessment collapsing non-randomly?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are some stocks more prone to collapsing than others? Is there autocorrelation? Either in region? Or by other fishery characteristic (gear type, demographics of fishermen, management regime?)\
\ls6\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What does a stock collapse mean in US stock assessments\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
That there are reasons to think that consideration of fishermen harvesting strategies is the missing piece to predicting fisheries collapse\
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
That the effort assumptions used in stock assessments are fragile in some way\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How is effort calculated in US stock assessments?\
\ls6\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How are effort metrics incorporated into management rules?\
\ls6\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Are the way that effort metrics incorporated into management rules particularly sensitive to any mistakes? Or inappropriate assumptions? \
\ls6\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If effort is incorporated into fisheries assessments in different ways, what types of fisheries have what types of effort metrics? And are these assumptions sensitive\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
And that the theoretically optimal harvesting strategy would respond differently. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b I'm here. First step is exploring how stock collapse is defined in US stock assessments and seeing if there's a non-random pattern of stock collapse. }