{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl320\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
From [#Ostrom:2009;]: The search for rules that improve the outcomes obtained in commons dilemmas is an incredibly complex task whether undertaken by users or by government officials. It involves a potentially infinite combination of specific rules that could be adopted in any effort to match the rules to the attributes of the resource system. Instead of assuming that designing rules that improve performance of common pool resources is a relatively simple analytical task, we need to understand that the institutional design process as involving an effort to tinker with a larger number of component parts. 
\f1 Policy changes are experiments based on more or less informed expectations about potential outcomes and the distribution of these outcomes for participants across time and space.
\f0 \
\
This was my rough thought. So how can I use existing policy changes as a way to understand underlying dynamics of SES. As in, a policy changes, what were the expectations of change to resource and resource users, did this happen, and why not?\} \
\
This makes me think of Hilborn's recent paper that didn't find any particular combination of management rules as consistently successful. So it's not the exact rules that are in place, it's something both more broad that all the systems have in common. Probably some amorphous characteristics that all the systems share. This makes me wonder if there are types of biology or social-dynamics (i.e. information transfer) that characterize easier to manage SES, although this is also what Ostrom has already hypothesized/shown with much of her field work. What I'd like to be able to do is figure out which characteristics of Ostrom's framework are fulfilled in successfully managed v. not successfully managed commercial fisheries. And are there fisheries that don't (without intervention) match the framework but with management/added institutions and incentives now fit the predicted attributes of successfully managed CPRs? And then does this point towards how to implement management strategies in fisheries not currently managed well?\
\
But this question/answer set up seems like: how to better manage systems, but not adding new knowledge of how a system works.. I guess I want to be able to look at feedbacks of SESs (and I keep saying that!).. So say I did classify fisheries as to how they fit into the Ostrom framework. Then imagine I get what I hypothesize to be true: that systems that more closely match her suggested successful attributes are better managed\\footnote\{ leaving this undefined for the moment\}. Then what's the next step? How can you transform poorly managed fisheries into more successfully managed ones? Or how are changing resource dynamics expected to change the SES -- will that transform the system into a less ideal common-pool resource system? Or changing social dynamics?\
\
See the figure I made here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://68"}}{\fldrslt Ostrom_fisheries}}}