{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
{\info
{\title Day One Entry - Mar 14, 2014}}\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Script\
Fishermen questions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Distribution of effort over space\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How do you choose where to go? Always going to the same fishing grounds versus going to new places?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How do you know where to go? Experience? Information from others? Publicly available information?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Is there territoriality?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Species targeted\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}What are the main fisheries out of this port? Where do the fish get sold to?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Do you target any particular species? Why?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How accurate can you be in targeting?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How long does it take to judge how much fish is on a particular fishing ground? (How long? How many tows?)\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls1\ilvl2\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}How familiar are you with the fishing grounds you fish? Some really familiar? Others less familiar?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}How does that improve your ability to fish there? Easier?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Time scales of the resource\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Can areas get fished out? Can a single trip do it?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How long do you have to wait before an area will replenish? Within the season? Another season?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How do costs and profits vary through the season? Particular times when it\'92s easier to catch fish? Particular time when fish are more profitable at the dock?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Demographic information?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How many fisheries do you participate in?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How many vessels do you have?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Do you still captain vessels?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How long have you been a fishermen? In general? In the fisheries you are a part of now?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}How do you choose what port to dock at?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Have you increased in mobility? Are you going farther out to look for fish, docking at more ports (farther away ports) then before ITQs?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Management\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Do you think managers are doing a good job?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Do you think they\'92re knowledgable about the abundance and distribution of the fish stocks?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Information\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Anything you hold really tightly to your chest?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}Do you cooperate with anyone? How? Any on the water cooperation?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 Manager questions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}What are the main targeted species? Why?\
{\listtext	\'95	}What are the main fisheries at this port?\
{\listtext	\'95	}How much information do the fishermen share with each other?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Are there territories among fishermen?\
{\listtext	\'95	}How do fishermen decide where to go?\
{\listtext	\'95	}How well do fishermen and managers get along?\
{\listtext	\'95	}How accurate do you think the estimates fishermen have of abundance and distribution are?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Who do most fishermen sell to?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Do most fishermen who land at this port live in the area?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 Fisheries scientist questions (mostly about the ecology of the targeted species)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}what are the main species out here?\
{\listtext	\'95	}are they seasonal?\
{\listtext	\'95	}are there habitats that are better or worse for fish?\
{\listtext	\'95	}any idea of the food web?\
}